Ingredients

2 fresh peaches
1/4 graham cracker crumbs
1 tbsp raisins
1 tbsp coarsely chopped walnuts
1 tsp peach flavored liqueur
1 cup peach juice
1 tbsp brown sugar

How to make Favorite Peach Dessert

Cut peaches in half, take away the nut. With a teaspoon take a small bites from the pulp of the peach and place it into a small mixing bowl. Combine it with the graham crackers, the raisins, walnuts and the liqueur. Mix well. Pour the juice in the baking dish, add the peaches with the open part looking up, fill the peaches with the mixture by spoonfuls, sprinkle with the brown sugar. Bake in preheat oven at 400° for 30 minutes. Let cool completely, sprinkle with confectioners' sugar before serving.

-----------------------------------
Sparkling Peach Dessert

For an effervescent treat, try topping juicy fresh fruit with sorbet and sparkling wine.

If time allows, chill the wine glasses or dessert dishes first.

Preparation time: 10 minutes

You Will Need

4 ripe peaches
4 scoops raspberry sorbet, about 1 cup in total
8 tablespoons sparkling white wine, well chilled
4 tablespoons chopped toasted almonds

What to Do

1. Rinse the peaches and pat dry with paper towels. Halve each fruit and discard the pit. Using a small sharp knife, dice the flesh, then divide it between 4 wine glasses or dessert dishes.

2. Rinse an ice cream scoop with hot water and use to scoop the sorbet. Put a scoop on top of the peach in each glass.

3. Add 2 tablespoons sparkling wine to each glass, then sprinkle with the toasted almonds.

Serves 4

Some More Ideas

If peaches are unavailable, ripe nectarines make a good substitute.

When soft fruit is at is best, make Sparkling Berry Dessert. Use 10 ounces strawberries, halved, or a mixture of raspberries and blueberries. You can also use a mixed-berry sorbet, instead of raspberry, or frozen vanilla yogurt. 

Replace the almonds with 4 tablespoons chopped, toasted hazelnuts.

Instead of sparkling wine (or even champagne), use a dessert wine, such as French Beaume de Venise.

Nutritional analysis: 225 calories, 5 g protein, 8 g fat (1 g saturated fat), 30 g carbohydrate (30 g sugars), 4 g fiber

Plus Points

Peaches are an excellent source of vitamin C (1 medium-size peach provides around 10 percent of the recommended daily amount). They also provide useful amounts of fiber and are low in calories.

Although sorbets can be very high in calories because of the sugar they contain, they are much lower in fat than ice cream.
