monika:

1 chili schote in oel anbraten
zwiebeln anbraten
knoblauch
kapern dazutun
eventuell mit gemuesebruehe und wasser strecken, damit genug sosse fuer spaghetti
balsamicoessig
rucola
salz
spaghetti 
parmesan

----------------------------------------------
2 cloves of garlic
half an untreated lemon
rucola
250 g pasta
4 tablespoons kapern

----------------------------------------------
INGREDIENTS:

1 pound dried linguine
1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil
2 large garlic cloves, or more to taste, finely minced  (I used 4 cloves.)
Generous pinch hot red pepper flakes
7 ounce (200-milligram) can imported tuna in olive oil, drained
salt
1/2 to 3/4 pound baby arugula (I used 3/4 pound because I like the taste of arugula.)

INSTRUCTIONS:

Instructions: Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. Add the linguine and boil until al dente.

While pasta cooks, heat olive oil, garlic and hot pepper flakes over moderately low heat until garlic is fragrant and sizzling. Add tuna and shred it into fine flakes with a fork. Season with salt and add a few tablespoons of boiling water from the pasta pot to make the mixture moist and sauce-like. Keep warm over low heat.

Just before the pasta is ready, set aside 1 cup of boiling water. Drain pasta and return it to the warm pot set over moderate heat. Add arugula and contents of the skillet and toss vigorously with tongs, moistening with some of the reserved pasta water. The arugula will wilt in the heat of the pasta. Divide among warm bowls and serve immediately.

Per serving: 540 calories, 21 g protein, 61 g carbohydrate, 23 g fat (3 g saturated), 6 mg cholesterol, 149 mg sodium, 7 g fiber.

Arugula is known by other names.  In England it's called rocket, roquette in France, and rochetta in Italy.  

----------------------------------------------
Spaghetti With Lime And Arugula Recipe 
Serves 4 

Coarse salt 
1 pound (dry) spaghetti 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil (preferably a fruity variety) 
1 tablespoon shredded lime rind 
2 medium cloves garlic, finely chopped 
1 red mild chili pepper, seeded and finely chopped 
2 tablespoons salt-packed capers, rinsed 
8 thin slices prosciutto, cut crosswise into 1/2" pieces (Slab bacon, rind removed, may be substituted for the prosciutto)
5 ounces arugula, shredded 
3 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 
5 ounces soft marinated feta cheese in oil 
Freshly cracked pepper 

1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Salt the water; add pasta, and cook until al dente. Drain. 

2. While the spaghetti is cooking, heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the lime rind, garlic, chile pepper, and capers; cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add prosciutto, and cook until crisp, about 2 minutes. Add drained spaghetti, and toss to coat and heat through. 

3. Toss the arugula and lime juice with the pasta, and pile into serving bowls. Top with feta cheese and a little of the marinating oil. Sprinkle with pepper, and serve immediately.

Actually, maybe a bit less pasta and more sauce would be ok as well.
