Spaghetti Ubriachi

Drunken Spaghetti
Yield: serves 4 - 6
Prep time: 10 mins

ingredients:

1 Pound Spaghetti
4 to 5 cups Red Wine
6 Tablespoons Extra Virgin Olive Oil
3 Cloves Garlic, Peeled & Minced
3/4 Cup Chopped Pancetta
Salt & Pepper
Red Pepper Flakes (Optional)
3/4 Cup Finely Chopped Fresh Parsley (Optional)
Grated Pecorino Cheese (Optional)

directions:

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, and cook the pasta for 3 to 4 minutes.
While pasta is cooking, add the wine to a second large pot and bring it to a boil.
Drain the pasta well and add it to the pot with red wine and continue to cook an additional 6 to 7 minutes or just until the pasta is “al dente”.
While the pasta is cooking in the wine, in a frying pan, heat the oil and cook the pancetta until light brown and just beginning to crisp,
Add the garlic, stir well and remove from the heat.
Season with salt, pepper and red pepper flakes.
Drain the pasta once more of whatever wine is left (most will have been absorbed by the pasta) and add the drained pasta to the pancetta and oil mixture.
Toss well and cook over the heat for a minute or so until it is well blended and piping hot.
Add the parsley if using, toss and serve.

2017-11-07 jeremy cooked for moni, karen, daniel boerlin:

600 g spaghetti boiled in salt water, drained, buttered
garlic, chili, rosemary fried in olive oil and butter
add red wine and vegetable broth to the fried stuff
add the spaghetti to the wine and let it cook away
serve with parmesan

2018-03-25 jeremy cooked for moni, with baerlauch -- perfect combination!

400 g spaghetti boiled in salt water, drained
chop a huge amount of baerlauch pretty fine, ca. 1 cm long slivers
add to the spaghetti with lots of butter and stew well
add 300 ml red wine and boil until absorbed
serve with parmesan

next time: maybe add vegetable broth with the wine

2019-03-03 in wildhaus with moni, madlee and matthias

500 g vollkornspaghetti
6 smallish or medium sized onions
5 large cloves garlic
ginger
chili flakes
pepper
oil
vegetable broth -- no salt
mauchener sonnenstueck spaetburgunger rotwein trocken

2019-10-28 gesa, hella and jeremy

300 g spaghetti
2 medium sized onions
3 large cloves garlic
ginger
chili == cayenne
NO pepper
NO oil!
butter only!
NO salt!
vegetable broth
miso
rioja la tenda pretty cheap

