/Users/jta/j/doc/recipe/whisky_truffle.txt

Ingredients of Basler Whisky-Truffes:

zucker
kakaomasse
kakaobutter
whisky min 8%
wasser
milchpulver
pflanzenoel
kakaopulver
aromen
sorbitsirup
glukose
molkepulver

5-Ingredient Whisky Dark Chocolate Truffles

4 servings

400 grams dark chocolate (finely chopped, or chocolate chips)
80 ml heavy cream
2 tbsp. butter
80 ml whisky
1 tsp. sea salt
unsweetened cocoa powder (optional, or sprinkles for rolling)

Add chocolate, heavy cream and butter to a medium saucepan.
Heat over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the chocolate is completely melted and the mixture is smooth.
Stir in whisky and sea salt, and whisk until smooth.
Refrigerate the mixture for 2-3 hours, or until completely chilled.

Remove from the refrigerator, and use a small cookie scoop (or a melon baller or spoon) to shape the truffles into your desired size and shape, rolling between your hands quickly to smooth out the edges into a ball if needed.
Roll each ball in a bowl of cocoa powder or sprinkles if desired.

Enjoy immediately, or refrigerate in a sealed container for up to 1 week. 

2022-09-27:

first attempt, with amaretto, schoki:cream 1:1

130 g dark chocolate, over 75% cocoa
140 ml cream (haltbare H-sahne)
40 ml amaretto disaronno

heat the chocolate in a pan in boiling water.
mix the cream with the amaretto and pour into the chocolate.
i made two small batches.
the first, poured into ice cube forms, is lighter and more liquid.
the second, scraped off more hot chocolate from the walls of the pan and mixed more, is darker and more solid.
left them to cool in the open, no fridge.
we ate the first batch next day, still uncooled, with spoons.

2022-10-02:

second attempt, with amaretto, schoki:cream 4:1

400 g dark chocolate from rewe, 70% cocoa
1 tbsp butter
100 ml cream, normal, 30% fat
80 ml amaretto disaronno
big pinch of chili

poured onto a baking plate
the chocolate taste was too dominant and bitter
next time i would use twice as much cream and twice as much amaretto, no butter, and add a pinch of salt

